So I want to start with some fund fine tuning in my taps here in the header and all of the text here
in all my recipes I want to make sure that everywhere I'm using the right font my own custom once and
especially here in the header in the taps we're not really insuring this yet.
Of course it's relatively easy to ensure that though.
Let's start with the header the header is generally styled like the background color with our default
navigation options which we always set up on the stack navigator right.
Do you devil navigation options here allow us to well style the header and for example give the header
in general a style and add a background color.
Now important to recognize here is that header style really only targets the blocks Dee background so
to say so the container in which the action items to back button and does title sits the title itself
can be targeted with header style.
But of course we get an alternative to that besides header style where we can style that header container.
We also got a header titled style and that unsurprisingly targets the text component in which our header
title is presented and there are we can style it like we can Style Text elements and react native for
example by adding a font family of open sense.
Again I'm using the non bold versions that it can quickly see the difference.
This clearly is not bold anymore I guess it's pretty clear to see especially here on on OS and now if
I set this to bolt I ensure that I use this right style on both.
I was an android now for The Back text here by the way.
We can also overwrite that default which is the default system fund by setting the header back title
style.
That's a separate setting we can set up here and there we can also set the font family to let's say
open sense not not the bold version.
I don't want to have that in a bold style but I want to have it in my own font and this should now be
open sense here and use my own fund on Android of course this does not have an effect because there
we have no back text so that's one thing.
That's the header for the tabs it's pretty similar there we can go to our tab navigator we're creating
like the material bottom tab.
Navigator.
And this of course has our taps screen contact and then this second object where we configure the navigator
itself.
And as always and react navigation it's the second object where we can control the general look and
feel of the Navigator specific things like in the case of the tab navigator the tab.
I can color the bar colored tint color or although the label's style and indeed here on the tap are
options for the bottom tab navigator.
We can add a label style.
And again this targets to the text component which holds our label.
We can add a fun family here of open Sands bold so that we can clearly see the difference if it is reloads.
Now it is clearly a simple text that actually this doesn't look too bad.
So I think we can keep this.
But of course you could also set it to just open sense if you want a thinner version.
But now I'd use our own font now for Android.
Here the material bottom tab navigator also has some configuration options but actually it doesn't have
a label style.
What you can do there instead is on these separate tabs your loadings on the navigation options off
the taps your loading where you're also setting the tap or icon and so on there we can add tab bar label
here where we could set a label like meals multiple explanation marks to overwrite what we use as a
label.
Now both on ISIS and also on Android and that can actually be a string like this but you can also set
this to a react component to a text component namely and then in there you can set up your label meals
but of course now here you can add style and add any styles you want.
So a little bit of a workaround since there is no other built in way of styling this 40 material bottom
taps navigator but better to nothing.
So here we can now is that font family to open sans bold and if we do that we of course all to have
to make sure we now import the text component from react native because otherwise we can't use it down
there
and now is that we also get this on our eyes of course because we're sharing the config we'll fix this
in a second but now does is how we can set up our own style there as well but of course we now lost
the colour which is the downside of setting this manually here and since we only need this work around
here for Android for the material bottom taps the easiest fix is to use the platform API and only set
does tap our label to this text component for on Android because only then we need this work around
to set the font family so I'll check if we're on Android and if that's the case I'll return a text component
here otherwise I'll just return the text meals and then the advantage of just returning a text here
simply is that our other settings which set the tint colour and the label style and so on will kick
in and will not be overwritten if we set our own text component will disable all that default feature.
All these equal features which are built into the bottom tab Navigator.
The problem with the material bottom tab navigator is that it simply doesn't have all these full features
built in.
So there we need to override this but we only need to do this for Android on the other hand.
Now we can copy that and do the exact same thing of course.
Year 4 favourites render favourites as a text on ISIS and of course also in the text component for Android.
And with that we now should have a style that works and this looks good on ISIS there.
We basically didn't change anything and on Android there we now also have our own custom funds.
So it's a little bit of a work around which is required here.
Unfortunately when working with the bottom taps navigator but also not too hard to implement.
And with that we're making sure that we're using our own custom font everywhere in the navigation related
features of our app.